> Note: This page is a work in progress. The content and structure may change but the information provided is accurate. It is not recommended to link to sections within this document until it has been completed.

The behavior of some sniffs can be changed by setting certain sniff properties in your ruleset.xml file. On this page you will find the properties used in the various standards which are available for customisation. For properties that were added after ruleset support was introduced in version 1.3.0, the first stable version that made the property available is listed.

For more information about changing sniff behavior by customising your ruleset, see the [[Annotated ruleset.xml]].

## Table of contents
* Generic Sniffs
    * [Generic.ControlStructures.InlineControlStructure] (#genericcontrolstructuresinlinecontrolstructure)
    * [Generic.Debug.ClosureLinter] (#genericdebugclosurelinter)
    * [Generic.Files.LineEndings] (#genericfileslineendings)
    * [Generic.Files.LineLength] (#genericfileslinelength)
    * [Generic.Formatting.MultipleStatementAlignment] (#genericformattingmultiplestatementalignment)
    * [Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceBsdAllman] (#genericfunctionsopeningfunctionbracebsdallman)
    * [Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceKernighanRitchie] (#genericfunctionsopeningfunctionbracekernighanritchie)
    * [Generic.Metrics.CyclomaticComplexity] (#genericmetricscyclomaticcomplexity)
    * [Generic.Metrics.NestingLevel] (#genericmetricsnestinglevel)
    * [Generic.NamingConventions.CamelCapsFunctionName] (#genericnamingconventionscamelcapsfunctionname)
    * [Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions] (#genericphpforbiddenfunctions)
    * [Generic.PHP.NoSilencedErrors] (#genericphpnosilencederrors)
    * [Generic.Strings.UnnecessaryStringConcat] (#genericstringsunnecessarystringconcat)
    * [Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent] (#genericwhitespacescopeindent)
* PSR2 Sniffs
    * [PSR2.Classes.ClassDeclaration] (#psr2classesclassdeclaration)
    * [PSR2.ControlStructures.ControlStructureSpacing] (#psr2controlstructurescontrolstructurespacing)
    * [PSR2.ControlStructures.SwitchDeclaration] (#psr2controlstructuresswitchdeclaration)
* Squiz Sniffs
    * [Squiz.Classes.ClassDeclaration] (#squizclassesclassdeclaration)
    * [Squiz.Commenting.LongConditionClosingComment] (#squizcommentinglongconditionclosingcomment)
    * [Squiz.ControlStructures.ForEachLoopDeclaration] (#squizcontrolstructuresforeachloopdeclaration)
    * [Squiz.ControlStructures.ForLoopDeclaration] (#squizcontrolstructuresforloopdeclaration)
    * [Squiz.ControlStructures.SwitchDeclaration] (#squizcontrolstructuresswitchdeclaration)
    * [Squiz.CSS.ForbiddenStyles] (#squizcssforbiddenstyles)
    * [Squiz.CSS.Indentation] (#squizcssindentation)
    * [Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclaration] (#squizfunctionsfunctiondeclaration)
    * [Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclarationArgumentSpacing] (#squizfunctionsfunctiondeclarationargumentspacing)
    * [Squiz.PHP.CommentedOutCode] (#squizphpcommentedoutcode)
    * [Squiz.PHP.DiscouragedFunctions] (#squizphpdiscouragedfunctions)
    * [Squiz.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions] (#squizphpforbiddenfunctions)
    * [Squiz.Strings.ConcatenationSpacing] (#squizstringsconcatenationspacing)
    * [Squiz.WhiteSpace.FunctionSpacing] (#squizwhitespacefunctionspacing)
    * [Squiz.WhiteSpace.ObjectOperatorSpacing] (#squizwhitespaceobjectoperatorspacing)
    * [Squiz.WhiteSpace.OperatorSpacing] (#squizwhitespaceoperatorspacing)
    * [Squiz.WhiteSpace.SuperfluousWhitespace] (#squizwhitespacesuperfluouswhitespace)

***

## Generic Sniffs

### Generic.ControlStructures.InlineControlStructure

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
error         | bool | true    | -

If the `error` property is set to `false`, a warning will be thrown for violations instead of an error.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.ControlStructures.InlineControlStructure">
    <properties>
        <property name="error" value="false" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.Debug.ClosureLinter

Property Name | Type  | Default | Available Since
------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------------
errorCodes    | array | -       | -
ignoreCodes   | array | -       | -

The `Generic.Debug.ClosureLinter` sniff runs the `gjslint` tool over JavaScript files and reports errors that the tool finds. All found errors are reported as PHP_CodeSniffer warnings by default.

There are two configurable options:
* `errorCodes` : a list of error codes that should show as errors instead of warnings
* `ignoreCodes` : a list of error codes that should be ignored

> Note: The error codes accepted by this sniff are the 4-digit codes generated by the `gjslint` tool and displayed in the warning messages produced by this sniff.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Debug.ClosureLinter">
    <properties>
        <property name="errorCodes" type="array" value="0210"/>
        <property name="ignoreCodes" type="array" value="0001,0110,0240"/>
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.Files.LineEndings

Property Name | Type   | Default | Available Since
------------- | ------ | ------- | ---------------
eolChar       | string | \n      | -

This sniff ensures that files use a specific line ending, which can be customised by setting the `eolChar` property.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Files.LineEndings">
    <properties>
        <property name="eolChar" value="\r\n" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.Files.LineLength

Property Name     | Type | Default | Available Since
----------------- | ---  | ------- | ---------------
lineLimit         | int  | 80      | -
absoluteLineLimit | int  | 100     | -

This sniff checks all lines in a file and generates warnings if they are over `lineLimit` characters in length and errors if they are over `absoluteLineLimit` in length. These properties can be used to set the threshold at which errors are reported.

> Note: The value of the `lineLimit` property should be less than or equal to the value of the `absoluteLineLimit` property.

```xml
<!--
 Warn about lines longer than 100 chars,
 and error for lines longer than 135 chars.
-->
<rule ref="Generic.Files.LineLength">
    <properties>
        <property name="lineLimit" value="100" />
        <property name="absoluteLineLimit" value="135" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

If errors are not required, the value of `absoluteLineLimit` can be set to zero.

```xml
<!-- Warn about lines longer than 135 chars, and never error. -->
<rule ref="Generic.Files.LineLength">
    <properties>
        <property name="lineLimit" value="135" />
        <property name="absoluteLineLimit" value="0" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.Formatting.MultipleStatementAlignment

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
maxPadding    | int  | 1000    | -
error         | bool | false   | -

This sniff checks the alignment of assignment operators. If there are multiple adjacent assignments, it checks that the equals signs of each assignment are aligned.

The difference in alignment between two adjacent assignments is occasionally quite large, so aligning equals signs would create extremely long lines. By setting the `maxPadding` property, you can configure the maximum amount of padding required to align the assignment with the surrounding assignments before the alignment is ignored and no warnings will be generated.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Formatting.MultipleStatementAlignment">
    <properties>
        <property name="maxPadding" value="50" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

If the `error` property is set to `true`, an error will be thrown for violations instead of a warning.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Formatting.MultipleStatementAlignment">
    <properties>
        <property name="error" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceBsdAllman

Property Name  | Type | Default | Available Since
-------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
checkFunctions | bool | true    | 2.3.0
checkClosures  | bool | false   | 2.3.0

The sniff checks the position of the opening brace of a function and/or closure (anonymous function). The sniff only checks functions by default, but the `checkFunctions` and `checkClosures` properties can be used to have the sniff check one or both of these code blocks.

```xml
<!-- Don't check function braces, but check closure braces. -->
<rule ref="Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceBsdAllman">
    <properties>
        <property name="checkFunctions" value="false" />
        <property name="checkClosures" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceKernighanRitchie

Property Name  | Type | Default | Available Since
-------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
checkFunctions | bool | true    | 2.3.0
checkClosures  | bool | false   | 2.3.0

The sniff checks the position of the opening brace of a function and/or closure (anonymous function). The sniff only checks functions by default, but the `checkFunctions` and `checkClosures` properties can be used to have the sniff check one or both of these code blocks.

```xml
<!-- Don't check function braces, but check closure braces. -->
<rule ref="Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceKernighanRitchie">
    <properties>
        <property name="checkFunctions" value="false" />
        <property name="checkClosures" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.Metrics.CyclomaticComplexity

Property Name      | Type | Default | Available Since
------------------ | ---- | ------- | ---------------
complexity         | int  | 10      | -
absoluteComplexity | int  | 20      | -

This sniff checks the cyclomatic complexity for functions by counting the different paths the function includes.

There are two configurable options:
* `complexity` : the cyclomatic complexity above which this sniff will generate warnings
* `absoluteComplexity` : the cyclomatic complexity above which this sniff will generate errors

> Note: The value of the `complexity` property should be less than or equal to the value of the `absoluteComplexity` property.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Metrics.CyclomaticComplexity">
    <properties>
        <property name="complexity" value="15" />
        <property name="absoluteComplexity" value="30" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.Metrics.NestingLevel

Property Name        | Type | Default | Available Since
-------------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
nestingLevel         | int  | 5       | -
absoluteNestingLevel | int  | 10      | -

This sniff checks how many level deep that code is nested within a function.

There are two configurable options:
* `nestingLevel` : the nesting level above which this sniff will generate warnings
* `absoluteNestingLevel` : the nesting level above which this sniff will generate errors

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Metrics.NestingLevel">
    <properties>
        <property name="nestingLevel" value="8" />
        <property name="absoluteNestingLevel" value="12" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.NamingConventions.CamelCapsFunctionName

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
strict        | bool | true    | 1.3.5

This sniff ensures function and method names are in CamelCaps.

Strictly speaking, a name cannot have two capital letters next to each other in CamelCaps format. By setting the `strict` property to `false`, the sniff applies the rule more leniently and allows for two capital letters next to each other in function and method names.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.NamingConventions.CamelCapsFunctionName">
    <properties>
        <property name="strict" value="false" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions

Property Name      | Type  | Default                     | Available Since
-------------------| ----- | --------------------------- | ---------------
forbiddenFunctions | array | sizeof=>count,delete=>unset | 2.0.0
error              | bool  | true                        | -

This sniff discourages the use of alias functions that are kept in PHP for compatibility with older versions. The sniff can be used to forbid the use of any function by setting the `forbiddenFunctions` property. The property is defined as an array, with the keys being the names of the functions to forbid and the values being the names of suggested alternative functions to use instead. If no alternative function exists (i.e., the function should never be used) specify `null` as the value.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions">
    <properties>
        <property name="forbiddenFunctions" type="array"
            value="print=>echo,create_function=>null" />
     </properties>
</rule>
```

If the `error` property is set to `false`, a warning will be thrown for violations instead of an error.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions">
    <properties>
        <property name="error" value="false" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.PHP.NoSilencedErrors

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
error         | bool | true    | -

If the `error` property is set to `false`, a warning will be thrown for violations instead of an error.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.PHP.NoSilencedErrors">
    <properties>
        <property name="error" value="false" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.Strings.UnnecessaryStringConcat

Property Name  | Type | Default | Available Since
-------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
allowMultiline | bool | false   | 2.3.4
error          | bool | true    | -

This sniff checks that two strings using the same quoting style are not concatenated. Sometimes long strings are broken over multiple lines to work within a maximum line length, but this sniff will generate an error for these cases by default. Setting the `allowMultiline` property to `true` will get the sniff to allow string concatenation if the string covers multiple lines.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Strings.UnnecessaryStringConcat">
    <properties>
        <property name="allowMultiline" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

If the `error` property is set to `false`, a warning will be thrown for violations instead of an error.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Strings.UnnecessaryStringConcat">
    <properties>
        <property name="error" value="false" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent

Property Name           | Type  | Default | Available Since
----------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------------
indent                  | int   | 4       | -
exact                   | bool  | false   | -
tabIndent               | bool  | false   | 2.0.0
ignoreIndentationTokens | array | -       | 1.4.8

This sniff checks that code blocks are indented correctly. By default, this sniff ensures that code blocks are indented 4 spaces, but you can change the size of the indent by setting the `indent` property.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent">
    <properties>
        <property name="indent" value="2" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

The `exact` property is used to determine whether an indent is treated as an exact number or as a minimum amount. By default, code blocks must be indented at least `indent` spaces from the last code block. If `exact` is set to `true`, code blocks must be indented exactly `indent` spaces from the last code block.

> Note: Enforcing exact indent checking is generally not advised because it doesn't allow for any flexibility when indenting and aligning code. It is almost always better to use the default value and then allow other sniffs to enforce specific indenting rules.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent">
    <properties>
        <property name="exact" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

By default, this sniff enforces the use of spaces for indentation and also uses spaces when fixing the indentation of code blocks. If you prefer using tabs, you can set the `tabIndent` property to `true`. 

> Note: The size of each tab is important, so it should be specified using the `--tab-width` CLI argument or by adding `<arg name="tab-width" value="4"/>` to your ruleset. This sniff will use this value when checking and fixing indents.

```xml
<!-- Tabs should represent 4 spaces. -->
<arg name="tab-width" value="4"/>
...
<!-- Indent using tabs. -->
<rule ref="Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent">
    <properties>
        <property name="tabIndent" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

Setting the `ignoreIndentationTokens` property provides the sniff with a list of tokens that do not need to be checked for indentation. This is commonly used to ignore indentation for code structures such as comments and here/nowdocs.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent">
    <properties>
        <property name="ignoreIndentationTokens" type="array"
            value="T_COMMENT,T_DOC_COMMENT_OPEN_TAG"/>
    </properties>
</rule>
```




## PEAR Sniffs

### PEAR.Functions.FunctionCallSignature

Property Name          | Type | Default | Available Since
---------------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
allowMultipleArguments | bool | true    | 1.3.6 (?)

According to the PEAR coding standards:
> Functions should be called with no spaces between the function name, the opening parenthesis, and the first parameter; and no space between the last parameter, the closing parenthesis, and the semicolon.

Setting the `allowMultipleArguments` property to `true`, allows for multiple arguments to be defined per line in a multi-line call.

```xml
<rule ref="PEAR.Functions.FunctionCallSignature">
    <properties>
        <property name="allowMultipleArguments" value="false" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```


### PEAR.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent

Property Name           | Type  | Default | Available Since
----------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------------
indent                  | int   | 4       | -
exact                   | bool  | false   | -
tabIndent               | bool  | false   | 2.0.0
ignoreIndentationTokens | array | -       | 1.4.8

> Note: All properties are inherited from the [Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent] (#genericwhitespacescopeindent) sniff.

See the [Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent] (#genericwhitespacescopeindent) sniff for an explanation of all properties.

```xml
<!-- Tabs should represent 4 spaces. -->
<arg name="tab-width" value="4"/>
...
<rule ref="PEAR.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent">
    <properties>
        <property name="exact" value="true" />
        <property name="tabIndent" value="true" />
        <property name="ignoreIndentationTokens" type="array"
            value="T_COMMENT,T_DOC_COMMENT_OPEN_TAG"/>
    </properties>
</rule>
```



## PSR2 Sniffs

### PSR2.Classes.ClassDeclaration

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
indent        | int  | 4       | 1.3.5

One of the rules that this sniff enforces is the indent of a list of implemented or extended class names that have been split over multiple lines. By default, this sniff ensures that the class names are indented 4 spaces, but you can change the size of the indent by setting the `indent` property.

```xml
<rule ref="PSR2.Classes.ClassDeclaration">
    <properties>
        <property name="indent" value="2" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### PSR2.ControlStructures.ControlStructureSpacing

Property Name             | Type | Default | Available Since
------------------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
requiredSpacesAfterOpen   | int  | 0       | 1.5.2
requiredSpacesBeforeClose | int  | 0       | 1.5.2

This sniff checks that control structures have the correct padding inside their bracketed statement. By default, the sniff ensures there are zero spaces following the opening bracket, and zero spaces preceding the closing bracket, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
if ($condition === true) {
    // Body.
}
```

Another common way of padding control structures is to use a single space, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
if ( $condition === true ) {
    // Body.
}
```

If you prefer to write your code like this, you can set the `requiredSpacesAfterOpen` and `requiredSpacesBeforeClose` properties to `1`, or whatever padding you prefer.

```xml
<rule ref="PSR2.ControlStructures.ControlStructureSpacing">
    <properties>
        <property name="requiredSpacesAfterOpen" value="1" />
        <property name="requiredSpacesBeforeClose" value="1" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### PSR2.ControlStructures.SwitchDeclaration

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------  | ---- | ------- | ---------------
indent        | int  | 4       | 1.4.5

One of the rules that this sniff enforces is the indent of the case terminating statement. By default, this sniff ensures that the statement is indented 4 spaces from the `case` or `default` keyword, but you can change the size of the indent by setting the `indent` property.

```xml
<rule ref="PSR2.ControlStructures.SwitchDeclaration">
    <properties>
        <property name="indent" value="2" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```




## Squiz Sniffs

### Squiz.Classes.ClassDeclaration

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------  | ---- | ------- | ---------------
indent        | int  | 4       | 1.3.5

> Note: The `indent` property is inherited from the [PSR2.Classes.ClassDeclaration] (#psr2classesclassdeclaration) sniff.

One of the rules that this sniff enforces is the indent of a list of implemented or extended class names that have been split over multiple lines. By default, this sniff ensures that the class names are indented 4 spaces, but you can change the size of the indent by setting the `indent` property.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Classes.ClassDeclaration">
    <properties>
        <property name="indent" value="2" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.Commenting.LongConditionClosingComment

Property Name | Type   | Default  | Available Since
------------- | ------ | -------- | ---------------
lineLimit     | int    | 20       | 2.7.0
commentFormat | string | //end %s | 2.7.0

This sniff checks that long blocks of code have a closing comment. The `lineLimit` property allows you to configure the numbers of lines that the code block must span before requiring a comment. By default, the code block must be at least 20 lines long, including the opening and closing lines, but you can change the required length by setting the `lineLimit` property.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Commenting.LongConditionClosingComment">
    <properties>
        <property name="lineLimit" value="40" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

When a closing comment is required, the format defaults to `//end %s`, where the %s placeholder is replaced with the type of the code block. For example, `//end if`, `//end foreach`, or `//end switch`. You can change the format of the end comment by setting the `commentFormat` property.

```xml
<!-- Have code block comments look like // end foreach() etc. -->
<rule ref="Squiz.Commenting.LongConditionClosingComment">
    <properties>
        <property name="commentFormat" value="// end %s()" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.ControlStructures.ForEachLoopDeclaration

Property Name             | Type | Default | Available Since
------------------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
requiredSpacesAfterOpen   | int  | 0       | 1.5.2
requiredSpacesBeforeClose | int  | 0       | 1.5.2

This sniff checks that `foreach` structures have the correct padding inside their bracketed statement. By default, the sniff ensures there are zero spaces following the opening bracket, and zero spaces preceding the closing bracket, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
foreach ($foo as $bar) {
    // Body.
}
```

Another common way of padding control structures is to use a single space, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
foreach ( $foo as $bar ) {
    // Body.
}
```

If you prefer to write your code like this, you can set the `requiredSpacesAfterOpen` and `requiredSpacesBeforeClose` properties to `1`, or whatever padding you prefer.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.ControlStructures.ForEachLoopDeclaration">
    <properties>
        <property name="requiredSpacesAfterOpen" value="1" />
        <property name="requiredSpacesBeforeClose" value="1" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.ControlStructures.ForLoopDeclaration

Property Name             | Type | Default | Available Since
------------------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
requiredSpacesAfterOpen   | int  | 0       | 1.5.2
requiredSpacesBeforeClose | int  | 0       | 1.5.2

This sniff checks that `for` structures have the correct padding inside their bracketed statement. By default, the sniff ensures there are zero spaces following the opening bracket, and zero spaces preceding the closing bracket, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
for ($i = 0; $i < 10; $i++) {
    // Body.
}
```

Another common way of padding control structures is to use a single space, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
for ( $i = 0; $i < 10; $i++ ) {
    // Body.
}
```

If you prefer to write your code like this, you can set the `requiredSpacesAfterOpen` and `requiredSpacesBeforeClose` properties to `1`, or whatever padding you prefer.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.ControlStructures.ForLoopDeclaration">
    <properties>
        <property name="requiredSpacesAfterOpen" value="1" />
        <property name="requiredSpacesBeforeClose" value="1" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.ControlStructures.SwitchDeclaration

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------  | ---- | ------- | ---------------
indent        | int  | 4       | 1.4.7

Two of the rules that this sniff enforces are the indent of `case` and `default` keywords, and the indent of the case terminating statement. By default, this sniff ensures that the keywords are indented 4 spaces from the `switch` keyword and that the terminating statement is indented 4 spaces from the `case` or `default` keyword, but you can change the size of the indent by setting the `indent` property.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.ControlStructures.SwitchDeclaration">
    <properties>
        <property name="indent" value="2" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.CSS.ForbiddenStyles

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
error         | bool | true    | 1.4.6

If the `error` property is set to `false`, a warning will be thrown for violations instead of an error.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.CSS.ForbiddenStyles">
    <properties>
        <property name="error" value="false" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.CSS.Indentation

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------  | ---- | ------- | ---------------
indent        | int  | 4       | 1.4.7

This sniff checks the indentation of CSS class definitions. By default, this sniff ensures that style statements are indented using 4 spaces, but you can change the size of the indent by setting the `indent` property.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.CSS.Indentation">
    <properties>
        <property name="indent" value="2" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclaration

Property Name  | Type | Default | Available Since
-------------- | ---- | ------- | --------------
ignoreComments | bool | false   | 1.4.0

> Note: The `ignoreComments` property is inherited from the AbstractPattern sniff.

This sniff verifies that functions declarations match a specific pattern of whitespace and bracket placement. By default, comments placed within the function declaration will generate an error, but the sniff can be told to ignore comments by setting the `ignoreComments` property to `true`.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclaration">
    <properties>
        <property name="ignoreComments" value="false" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclarationArgumentSpacing

Property Name             | Type | Default | Available Since
------------------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
equalsSpacing             | int  | 0       | 1.3.5
requiredSpacesAfterOpen   | int  | 0       | 1.5.2
requiredSpacesBeforeClose | int  | 0       | 1.5.2

One of the rules this sniff enforces is the padding around equal signs in the function argument list. By default, the sniff ensures there are zero spaces before and after the equals sign, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
function Foo($a='a', $b='b') {
    // Body.
}
```

Another common way of defining default values is to use a single space, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
function Foo($a = 'a', $b = 'b') {
    // Body.
}
```

If you prefer to write your code like this, you can set the `equalsSpacing` property to `1`, or whatever padding you prefer.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclarationArgumentSpacing">
    <properties>
        <property name="equalsSpacing" value="1" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

Another of the rules this sniff enforces is that functions have the correct padding inside their bracketed list of arguments. By default, the sniff ensures there are zero spaces following the opening bracket, and zero spaces preceding the closing bracket, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
function Foo($a, $b) {
    // Body.
}
```

Another common way of padding argument lists is to use a single space, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
function Foo( $a, $b ) {
    // Body.
}
```

If you prefer to write your code like this, you can set the `requiredSpacesAfterOpen` and `requiredSpacesBeforeClose` properties to `1`, or whatever padding you prefer.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclarationArgumentSpacing">
    <properties>
        <property name="requiredSpacesAfterOpen" value="1" />
        <property name="requiredSpacesBeforeClose" value="1" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.PHP.CommentedOutCode

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
maxPercentage | int  | 35      | 1.3.3

This sniff generates warnings for commented out code. By default, a warning is generated if a comment appears to be more than 35% valid code. If you find that the sniff is generating a lot of false positive, you may want to raise the valid code threshold by increasing the `maxPercentage` property. Similarly, if you find that the sniff is generating a lot of false negatives, you may want to make it more sensitive by dropping the threshold by decreasing the `maxPercentage` property.

```xml
<!-- Make this sniff more sensitive to commented out code blocks. -->
<rule ref="Squiz.PHP.CommentedOutCode">
    <properties>
        <property name="maxPercentage" value="20" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.PHP.DiscouragedFunctions

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
error         | bool | false   | -

> Note: This sniff also has a `forbiddenFunctions` property inherited from the [Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions] (#genericphpforbiddenfunctions) sniff, but it should not be used. If you want to customise the list of discouraged functions, use the Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions sniff directly.

If the `error` property is set to `true`, an error will be thrown for violations instead of a warning.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.PHP.DiscouragedFunctions">
    <properties>
        <property name="error" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
error         | bool | false   | -

> Note: This sniff also has a `forbiddenFunctions` property inherited from the [Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions] (#genericphpforbiddenfunctions) sniff, but it should not be used. If you want to customise the list of forbidden functions, use the Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions sniff directly.

If the `error` property is set to `true`, an error will be thrown for violations instead of a warning.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions">
    <properties>
        <property name="error" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.Strings.ConcatenationSpacing

Property Name  | Type | Default | Available Since
-------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
spacing        | int  | 0       | 2.0.0
ignoreNewlines | bool | false   | 2.3.1

One of the rules this sniff enforces is the padding around concatenation operators. By default, the sniff ensures there are zero spaces before and after the concatenation operator, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
$foo = $number.'-'.$letter;
```

Another common way of padding concatenation operators is to use a single space, as shown in the following code snippet:

```php
$foo = $number . '-' . $letter;
```

If you prefer to write your code like this, you can set the `spacing` property to `1`, or whatever padding you prefer.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Strings.ConcatenationSpacing">
    <properties>
        <property name="spacing" value="1" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

Sometimes long concatenation statements are broken over multiple lines to work within a maximum line length, but this sniff will generate an error for these cases by default. Setting the `ignoreNewlines` property to `true` will allow newline characters before or after a concatenation operator, and any required padding for alignment.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Strings.ConcatenationSpacing">
    <properties>
        <property name="ignoreNewlines" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.WhiteSpace.FunctionSpacing

Property Name | Type | Default | Available Since
------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
spacing       | int  | 2       | 1.4.5

This sniff checks that there are two blank lines before and after functions declarations, but you can change the required padding using the `spacing` property.

```xml
<!-- Ensure 1 blank line before and after functions. -->
<rule ref="Squiz.WhiteSpace.FunctionSpacing">
    <properties>
        <property name="spacing" value="1" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.WhiteSpace.ObjectOperatorSpacing

Property Name  | Type | Default | Available Since
-------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
ignoreNewlines | bool | false   | 2.7.0

This sniff ensures there are no spaces surrounding an object operator. Sometimes long object chains are broken over multiple lines to work within a maximum line length, but this sniff will generate an error for these cases by default. Setting the `ignoreNewlines` property to `true` will allow newline characters before or after an object operator, and any required padding for alignment.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.WhiteSpace.ObjectOperatorSpacing">
    <properties>
        <property name="ignoreNewlines" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.WhiteSpace.OperatorSpacing

Property Name  | Type | Default | Available Since
-------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
ignoreNewlines | bool | false   | 2.2.0

This sniff ensures there is one space before and after an operators. Sometimes long statements are broken over multiple lines to work within a maximum line length, but this sniff will generate an error for these cases by default. Setting the `ignoreNewlines` property to `true` will allow newline characters before or after an operator, and any required padding for alignment.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.WhiteSpace.OperatorSpacing">
    <properties>
        <property name="ignoreNewlines" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

### Squiz.WhiteSpace.SuperfluousWhitespace

Property Name    | Type | Default | Available Since
---------------- | ---- | ------- | ---------------
ignoreBlankLines | bool | false   | 1.4.2

Some of the rules this sniff enforces are that there should not be whitespace at the end of a line, and that functions should not contain multiple blank lines in a row. If the `ignoreBlankLines` property is set to `true`, blank lines (lines that contain only whitespace) may have spaces and tabs as their content, and multiple blank lines will be allows inside functions.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.WhiteSpace.SuperfluousWhitespace">
    <properties>
        <property name="ignoreBlankLines" value="true" />
    </properties>
</rule>
```

***
***
***

## Generic properties used across standards

### Changing the message type

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.ControlStructures.InlineControlStructure` | `error` | bool | `true` | 1.2.2
`Generic.Formatting.MultipleStatementAlignment` | `error` | bool | `false` | 1.2.2
`Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions` | `error` | bool | `true` | 1.2.2
`Generic.PHP.DeprecatedFunctions` | `error` | bool | `true` | 1.2.2
`Generic.PHP.NoSilencedErrors` | `error` | bool | `false` | 1.2.2
`Generic.Strings.UnnecessaryStringConcat` | `error` | bool | `true` | 1.2.2
`Squiz.CSS.ForbiddenStyles` | `error` | bool | `true` | 1.4.6
`Squiz.PHP.DiscouragedFunctions` | `error` | bool | `false` | 1.2.2
`Squiz.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions` | `error` | bool | `false` | 1.2.2

If the `error` property is set to `true`, an error will be thrown for violations found by these sniffs; otherwise a warning.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.ControlStructures.InlineControlStructure">
	<properties>
		<property name="error" value="false" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```

**_Note_**: for individual error codes, _i.e. `Standard.Category.SniffName.ErrorCode`_, for these and all other sniffs, you can also change the message type using the `<type>warning</type>` syntax.


### Code indentation

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.2.2
`PEAR.Classes.ClassDeclaration` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.3.1
`PEAR.ControlStructures.MultiLineCondition` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.4.7
`PEAR.Formatting.MultiLineAssignment` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.4.7
`PEAR.Functions.FunctionCallSignature` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.3.4
`PEAR.Functions.FunctionDeclaration` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.4.7
`PEAR.WhiteSpace.ObjectOperatorIndent` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.4.6
`PEAR.WhiteSpace.ScopeClosingBrace` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.3.4
`PEAR.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.2.2 (inherited from `Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent`)
`PSR2.Classes.ClassDeclaration` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.3.5 (inherited from `PEAR.Classes.ClassDeclaration`)
`PSR2.ControlStructures.SwitchDeclaration` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.4.5
`Squiz.Classes.ClassDeclaration` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.3.5 (inherited from `PEAR.Classes.ClassDeclaration` via `PSR2.Classes.ClassDeclaration`)
`Squiz.ControlStructures.SwitchDeclaration` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.4.7
`Squiz.CSS.Indentation` | `indent` | int | `4` | 1.4.7

Each of these sniffs verify code indentation for their target structures.

You can customize the number of spaces code should be indented by setting the `indent` property to the size of a single indent.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent">
	<properties>
		<property name="indent" value="8" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Spacing inside parenthesis for function calls and control structures

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`PEAR.Functions.FunctionCallSignature` | `requiredSpacesAfterOpen` | int | `0` | 1.5.2
`PEAR.Functions.FunctionCallSignature` | `requiredSpacesBeforeClose` | int | `0` | 1.5.2
`PSR2.ControlStructures.ControlStructureSpacing` | `requiredSpacesAfterOpen` | int | `0` | 1.5.2
`PSR2.ControlStructures.ControlStructureSpacing` | `requiredSpacesBeforeClose` | int | `0` | 1.5.2
`Squiz.ControlStructures.ForEachLoopDeclaration` | `requiredSpacesAfterOpen` | int | `0` | 1.5.2
`Squiz.ControlStructures.ForEachLoopDeclaration` | `requiredSpacesBeforeClose` | int | `0` | 1.5.2
`Squiz.ControlStructures.ForLoopDeclaration` | `requiredSpacesAfterOpen` | int | `0` | 1.5.2
`Squiz.ControlStructures.ForLoopDeclaration` | `requiredSpacesBeforeClose` | int | `0` | 1.5.2
`Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclarationArgumentSpacing` | `requiredSpacesAfterOpen` | int | `0` | 1.5.2
`Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclarationArgumentSpacing` | `requiredSpacesBeforeClose` | int | `0` | 1.5.2

Each of these sniffs verify the spacing on the inside of parenthesis for their various targets.

For each of these, you can customize:
* How many spaces should follow the opening bracket.
* How many spaces should precede the closing bracket.

```xml
<rule ref="PEAR.Functions.FunctionCallSignature">
	<properties>
		<property name="requiredSpacesAfterOpen" value="1" />
		<property name="requiredSpacesBeforeClose" value="1" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Ignoring comments in sniffs based on patterns

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
_`PHP_CodeSniffer_Standards_AbstractPatternSniff`_ | _`ignoreComments`_ | _bool_ | _`false`_ | _1.4.0_
`PEAR.ControlStructures.ControlSignature` | `ignoreComments` | bool | `true` | 1.4.0 (inherited from `AbstractPattern`)
`Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclaration` | `ignoreComments` | bool | `false` | 1.4.0 (inherited from `AbstractPattern`)

These sniffs verify that their target code structures comply with a certain pattern.

You can customize the behaviour by setting the `ignoreComments` property.
If set to `true`, comments will be ignored if they are found in the target code.

This property is available to any sniff which extends the `PHP_CodeSniffer_Standards_AbstractPatternSniff`.


```xml
<rule ref="PEAR.ControlStructures.ControlSignature">
	<properties>
		<property name="ignoreComments" value="false" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```



## Standard: Generic


### CodeAnalysis: Unused function parameters

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.CodeAnalysis.UnusedFunctionParameter` | `ignore_extended_classes` | bool | `false` | 2.8.1
`Generic.CodeAnalysis.UnusedFunctionParameter` | `allow_for_callbacks` | bool | `false` | 2.8.1

The `Generic.CodeAnalysis.UnusedFunctionParameter` sniff checks for unused function parameters.
The sniff checks that all function parameters are used in the function body.

By default, an exception is made for empty function bodies or function bodies that only contain comments when they are in a class that implements an interface.
This is intended to prevent false positives for classes that implement an interface that defines multiple methods but the implementation only needs some of them.

Since PHPCS 2.8.1, there are two configurable options:
* Setting the `ignore_extended_classes` property to `true` will completely ignore unused function parameters for methods in classes that extend another class or implement an interface.

    The function signature of methods in extended classes has to mirror the method as defined in the parent class/interface, even though the overloaded/implemented method may not use all params.
* Setting the `allow_for_callbacks` property to `true` will only report on unused parameters which are declared after the last used parameter as callback functions may not use all parameters passed, but have to allow in their function signature for the ones they *do* use to be passed to them.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.CodeAnalysis.UnusedFunctionParameter">
	<properties>
		<property name="ignore_extended_classes" value="true" />
		<property name="allow_for_callbacks" value="true" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Debug: Google Closure JSLinter

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.Debug.ClosureLinter` | `errorCodes` | array | - | 1.2.2
`Generic.Debug.ClosureLinter` | `ignoreCodes` | array | - | 1.2.2

The `Generic.Debug.ClosureLinter` sniff runs the `gjslint` tool over the files.

By default, it will throw warnings for any infractions found.

There are two configurable options:
* `errorCodes` allows you to pass a list of error codes that should show errors instead of warnings.
* `ignoreCodes` allows you to pass a list of error codes which should be ignored.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Debug.ClosureLinter">
	<properties>
		<property name="errorCodes" type="array" value="..." />
		<property name="ignoreCodes" type="array" value="..." />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Files: Line endings

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.Files.LineEndings` | `eolChar` | string | `\n` | 1.2.2

The `Generic.Files.LineEndings` sniff checks that end of line characters are correct.

By setting the `eolChar` property, you can customize the end of line character which will be considered valid.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Files.LineEndings">
	<properties>
		<property name="eolChar" value="\r\n" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Files: Line length

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.Files.LineLength` | `lineLimit` | int | `80` | 1.2.2
`Generic.Files.LineLength` | `absoluteLineLimit` | int | `100` | 1.2.2

The `Generic.Files.LineLength` sniff checks all lines in the file, and throws warnings if they are over `lineLimit` (80) characters in length and errors if they are over `absoluteLineLimit` (100) in length.

Both line limites be configured:
* `lineLimit` allows you to customize the limit that the length of a line **_should_** not exceed (warning).
* `absoluteLineLimit` allows you to customize the limit that the length of a line **_must_** not exceed (error).

    Set this property to zero (0) to disable.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Files.LineLength">
	<properties>
		<property name="lineLimit" value="100" />
		<property name="absoluteLineLimit" value="135" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```



### Formatting: assignment alignment

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.Formatting.MultipleStatementAlignment` | `maxPadding` | int | `1000` | 1.2.2

The `Generic.Formatting.MultipleStatementAlignment` sniff checks the alignment of assignments. If there are multiple adjacent assignments, it will check that the equals signs of each assignment are aligned.

However, sometimes the difference in alignment between two adjacent assignments is quite large and aligning would create extremely long lines.

By setting the `maxPadding` property, you can configure the maximum amount of padding required to align the assignment with the surrounding assignments before the alignment is ignored and no warnings will be thrown.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Formatting.MultipleStatementAlignment">
	<properties>
		<property name="maxPadding" value="50" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Functions: opening brace style for functions and closures

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceBsdAllman` | `checkFunctions` | bool | `true` | 2.3.0
`Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceBsdAllman` | `checkClosures` | bool | `false` | 2.3.0
`Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceKernighanRitchie` | `checkFunctions` | bool | `true` | 2.3.0
`Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceKernighanRitchie` | `checkClosures` | bool | `false` | 2.3.0

The `Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceBsdAllman` and `Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceKernighanRitchie` sniffs check the position of the opening brace of a function and/or closure (anonymous function).

By default, both sniffs only check the opening brace position of functions.

You can customize the behaviour by toggling the value of the `checkFunctions` and `checkClosures` properties.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Functions.OpeningFunctionBraceBsdAllman">
	<properties>
		<!-- Don't check function braces, but check closure braces. -->
		<property name="checkFunctions" value="false" />
		<property name="checkClosures" value="true" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Metrics: Cyclomatic complexity

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.Metrics.CyclomaticComplexity` | `complexity` | int | `10` | 1.2.2
`Generic.Metrics.CyclomaticComplexity` | `absoluteComplexity` | int | `20` | 1.2.2

As the name implies, the `Generic.Metrics.CyclomaticComplexity` sniff checks the cyclomatic complexity (McCabe) for functions.

The cyclomatic complexity indicates the complexity within a function by counting the different paths the function includes.

You can configure this sniff as follows:
* `complexity` allows you to customize the cyclomatic complexity above which this sniff will start throwing warnings.
* `absoluteComplexity` allows you to customize the cyclomatic complexity above which this sniff will start throwing errors.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Metrics.CyclomaticComplexity">
	<properties>
		<property name="complexity" value="15" />
		<property name="absoluteComplexity" value="30" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Metrics: nesting levels

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.Metrics.NestingLevel` | `nestingLevel` | int | `5` | 1.2.2
`Generic.Metrics.NestingLevel` | `absoluteNestingLevel` | int | `10` | 1.2.2

As the name implies, the `Generic.Metrics.NestingLevel` sniff checks the nesting level for methods.

You can configure this sniff as follows:
* `nestingLevel` allows you to customize the nesting level above which this sniff will start throwing warnings.
* `absoluteNestingLevel` allows you to customize the nesting level above which this sniff will start throwing errors.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Metrics.NestingLevel">
	<properties>
		<property name="nestingLevel" value="8" />
		<property name="absoluteNestingLevel" value="12" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Naming Conventions: CamelCaps function names

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.NamingConventions.CamelCapsFunctionName` | `strict` | bool | `true` | 1.3.5

The `Generic.NamingConventions.CamelCapsFunctionName` sniff ensures function and method names are in CamelCaps.

Stricly speaking, in CamelCaps format, a name cannot have two capital letters next to each other.

By setting the `strict` property to `false`, the sniff applies the rules more leniently and allows for two capital letters next to each other in function and method names.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.NamingConventions.CamelCapsFunctionName">
	<properties>
		<property name="strict" value="false" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### PHP: Forbidden PHP functions

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions` | `forbiddenFunctions` | array | `array( 'sizeof' => 'count', 'delete' => 'unset' )` | 2.0.0

The `Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions` sniff discourages the use of alias functions that are kept in PHP for compatibility with older versions.

The sniff can be used to forbid the use of any function by setting the `forbiddenFunctions` property in your ruleset.

The property is expected to be in array format. The array keys are the names of the function to forbid. The array values are the names of suggested alternative functions to use instead. Use `null` as the value if no alternative exists, i.e. the function should just not be used.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions">
	<properties>
		<property name="forbiddenFunctions" type="array" value="delete=>unset,print=>echo,create_function=>null" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```

### PHP: Deprecated PHP functions

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.PHP.DeprecatedFunctions` | `forbiddenFunctions` | array | _will be automagically filled with all PHP deprecated functions in the PHP version you are using via the Reflection API_ | 2.0.0 (inherited from `Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions`)

This sniff discourages the use of deprecated functions that are kept in PHP for compatibility with older versions.

**Overloading strongly discouraged!!!!! Overload the same property in the `Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions` sniff instead.**


### Strings: Unnecessary string concat

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.Strings.UnnecessaryStringConcat` | `allowMultiline` | bool | `false` | 2.3.4

The `Generic.Strings.UnnecessaryStringConcat` sniff checks that two strings are not concatenated together and suggests  using one string instead.

By changing the `allowMultiline` property to `true`, you can make the sniff more lenient and allow strings concatenated over multiple lines.
This is particularly useful if you break strings over multiple lines to work within a maximum line length.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.Strings.UnnecessaryStringConcat">
	<properties>
		<property name="allowMultiline" value="true" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Whitespace: Scope indent

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent` | `exact` | bool | `false` | 1.2.2
`Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent` | `tabIndent` | bool | `false` | 2.0.0
`Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent` | `ignoreIndentationTokens` | array | - | 1.4.5

The `Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent` sniff checks that control structures are structured correctly, and their content is indented correctly. This sniff will throw errors if tabs are used for indentation rather than spaces.

This sniff has three properties you can use to constomize its behaviour:
* The `exact` property is used to determine whether an indent is treated as an exact number or as a minimum amount. I.e. if set to `false`, the indent needs to be at least $indent spaces (but can be more).
* If you prefer using tabs instead of spaces, you can indicate this by setting `tabIndent` to `true`.

    In that case, tabs will be accepted for indentation and fixes will be made using tabs instead of spaces.

    **Note**: The size of each tab is important, so it should be specified using the `--tab-width` CLI argument or by adding `<arg name="tab-width" value="4"/>` to your ruleset.
* By setting the `ignoreIndentationTokens` property, you can provide the sniff with a list of tokens which do not need to be checked for indentation.

    Useful to easily ignore/skip some tokens from verification. For example, inline HTML sections or PHP open/close tags.

    It is advised to ensure that tokens you ignore here will be checked for their own rules elsewhere.

```xml
<rule ref="Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent">
	<properties>
		<property name="exact" value="true" />
		<property name="tabIndent" value="true" />
		<property name="ignoreIndentationTokens" type="array" value="T_HEREDOC,T_NOWDOC" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```



## Standard: PEAR


### Functions: Function call signature / multi-line

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`PEAR.Functions.FunctionCallSignature` | `allowMultipleArguments` | bool | `true` | 1.3.6

According to the PEAR coding standards:
> Functions should be called with no spaces between the function name, the opening parenthesis, and the first parameter; and no space between the last parameter, the closing parenthesis, and the semicolon.

Setting the `allowMultipleArguments` property to `true`, allows for multiple arguments to be defined per line in a multi-line call.

```xml
<rule ref="PEAR.Functions.FunctionCallSignature">
	<properties>
		<property name="allowMultipleArguments" value="false" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Whitespace: Scope indent

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`PEAR.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent` | `exact` | bool | `false` | 1.2.2 (inherited from `Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent`)
`PEAR.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent` | `tabIndent` | bool | `false` | 2.0.0 (inherited from `Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent`)
`PEAR.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent` | `ignoreIndentationTokens` | array | - | 1.4.5 (inherited from `Generic.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent`)

See: [Generic Standard - Whitespace: Scope indent](#whitespace-scope-indent)

```xml
<rule ref="PEAR.WhiteSpace.ScopeIndent">
	<properties>
		<property name="exact" value="true" />
		<property name="tabIndent" value="true" />
		<property name="ignoreIndentationTokens" type="array" value="T_HEREDOC,T_NOWDOC" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```



## Standard: Squiz


### Commenting: Long conditions closing comments

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Squiz.Commenting.LongConditionClosingComment` | `lineLimit` | int | `20` | 2.7.0
`Squiz.Commenting.LongConditionClosingComment` | `commentFormat` | string | `//end %s` | 2.7.0

The `Squiz.Commenting.LongConditionClosingComment` sniff checks that long blocks of code have a closing comment.

* The `lineLimit` property allows you to configure the length that a code block must be before requiring a closing comment.
* The `commentFormat` property allows you to configure the format the end comment should be in.

    The placeholder %s will be replaced with the type of condition opener.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Commenting.LongConditionClosingComment">
	<properties>
		<property name="lineLimit" value="40" />
		<property name="commentFormat" value="// End %s()" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Functions: Function declaration argument spacing

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclarationArgumentSpacing` | `equalsSpacing` | int | `0` | 1.3.5

The `Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclarationArgumentSpacing` sniff checks that arguments in function declarations are spaced correctly, including default parameter values.

By setting the `equalsSpacing` property, you can customize how many spaces should surround the equals signs.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Functions.FunctionDeclarationArgumentSpacing">
	<properties>
		<property name="equalsSpacing" value="1" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### PHP: Commented out code

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Squiz.PHP.CommentedOutCode` | `maxPercentage` | int | `35` | 1.3.3

This sniff warns about commented out code.

By default, if a comment is more than 35% code, a warning will be shown.

By setting the `maxPercentage` property, you can customize the threshold used to determine whether a warning will be shown or not.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.PHP.CommentedOutCode">
	<properties>
		<property name="maxPercentage" value="50" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### PHP: Discouraged and Forbidden functions

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Squiz.PHP.DiscouragedFunctions` | `forbiddenFunctions` | array | `array( 'error_log' => null, 'print_r' => null, 'var_dump' => null )` | 2.0.0 (inherited from `Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions`)
`Squiz.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions` | `forbiddenFunctions` | array | `array( 'sizeof' => 'count', 'delete' => 'unset', 'print' => 'echo', 'is_null' => null, 'create_function' => null )` | 2.0.0 (inherited from `Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions`)

See: [Generic standard - PHP: Forbidden PHP functions](#php-forbidden-php-functions)

**Overloading strongly discouraged!!!!! Overload the same property in the `Generic.PHP.ForbiddenFunctions` sniff instead or extend that class like these sniffs do.**


### Strings: Concatenation spacing

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Squiz.Strings.ConcatenationSpacing` | `spacing` | int | `0` | 2.0.0
`Squiz.Strings.ConcatenationSpacing` | `ignoreNewlines` | bool | `false` | 2.3.1

The `Squiz.Strings.ConcatenationSpacing` sniff verifies the number of spaces between the concatenation operator `.` and the strings being concatenated.

There are two configurable options:
* `spacing` allows you set the number of spaces which should be before and after a string concat.
* Setting `ignoreNewlines` to `true` allows for newline characters to be ignored when checking for infractions.

    This is particularly useful if you break a concatenation sequence over multiple lines to work within a maximum line length.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.Strings.ConcatenationSpacing">
	<properties>
		<property name="spacing" value="1" />
		<property name="ignoreNewlines" value="true" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Whitespace: Function spacing

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Squiz.WhiteSpace.FunctionSpacing` | `spacing` | int | `2` | 1.4.5

This sniff checks the separation between methods in a class or interface.

Using the `Squiz.WhiteSpace.FunctionSpacing` property, you can configure the number of blank lines required between functions.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.WhiteSpace.FunctionSpacing">
	<properties>
		<property name="spacing" value="1" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Whitespace: Object operator spacing

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Squiz.WhiteSpace.ObjectOperatorSpacing` | `ignoreNewlines` | bool | `false` | 2.7.0

The `Squiz.WhiteSpace.ObjectOperatorSpacing` sniff ensures there is no whitespace before/after an object operator.

Setting `ignoreNewlines` to `true` allows for newline characters to be ignored when checking for infractions.
This is particularly useful if you break a chained object function call over multiple lines.


```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.WhiteSpace.ObjectOperatorSpacing">
	<properties>
		<property name="ignoreNewlines" value="true" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```

### Whitespace: Operator spacing

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Squiz.WhiteSpace.OperatorSpacing` | `ignoreNewlines` | bool | `false` | 2.2.0

The `Squiz.WhiteSpace.OperatorSpacing` sniff verifies that operators have valid spacing surrounding them.

Setting `ignoreNewlines` to `true` allows for newline characters to be ignored when checking for infractions.
This is particularly useful if you break up a long sequence, such as a calculation with a large number of parts, over multiple lines to work within a maximum line length.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.WhiteSpace.OperatorSpacing">
	<properties>
		<property name="ignoreNewlines" value="true" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```


### Whitespace: Superfluous whitespace

Sniff | Property name | Property type | Default: | Available since:
----- | ------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------
`Squiz.WhiteSpace.SuperfluousWhitespace` | `ignoreBlankLines` | bool | `false` | 1.4.2

The `Squiz.WhiteSpace.SuperfluousWhitespace` sniff checks that:
* No whitespace preceeds the first content of the file.
* Exists after the last content of the file.
* Resides after content on any line.
* There are no consecutive empty lines in functions.

When the `ignoreBlankLines` property is set to `true`, blank lines - i.e. lines that contain only whitespace - are not checked for these whitespace rules.

```xml
<rule ref="Squiz.WhiteSpace.SuperfluousWhitespace">
	<properties>
		<property name="ignoreBlankLines" value="true" />
	</properties>
</rule>
```
